---
title: 'Social Authentication'
description: |
  You can add social authentication to your application with Gimlet to secure access.
---

**You can add social authentication to your application to secure and restrict access to your app.**

## Create OAuth Application on GitHub

If you'd like to set up social authentication for your applications, you'll have to create an OAuth application on Gimlet by following [GitHub's documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app).

Once the app is created, generate a Client Secret, and save the secret alongside the Client ID.

## Configuring Social Authentication in Gimlet

When the application is ready you can configure the OAuth Proxy settings in the environment settings.

You can access environment settings by selecting the Environments option in the menu on top, and then selecting the environment for which you'd like to configure social authentication by clicking on its card.

In the environment settings, select the Ingress settings in the menu on the left side, and scroll down to find Oauth2Proxy settings.

Enable it using the toggle, and you can enter the following settings.

- **Cookie Secret:** This secret can be generated in a shell you use by running `openssl rand -hex 16`. Copy and paste it here from the terminal.
- **GitHub Organization:** You can specify a GitHub organization here if you'd like to restrict access to the application to the members of an organization. Not required setting.
- **GitHub User:** You can specify GitHub users who can access your application. You're able to list any number of users. Separate usernames with commas. Not required setting.
- **GitHub Client ID:** This Client ID is generated by the GitHub OAuth App you created. Paste it here.
- **GitHub Client Secret:** You can generate this secret on GitHub where the Client ID is available.
